# core_research_steps_guide
Short step-by-step guide to doing quantitative research

This guide presents a guide to carrying out quantitative reseasrch that examines a causal question (i.e., Does something influence something else? How? Why?). For people relatively new to research, the amount of information and techniques and advide for how to do research is overwhelming. Textbooks are hundreds of pages a contain a large amount of information to process and synthesize. There are always many many ways to approach a research question along with a large number of issues to be aware and an enormous number of corresponding tools and techniques for dealing with these issues. For someone without a lot of research experience, it's nearly impossible to figure out which steps and issues are the most important for getting a reasonabe answer to the research question, and which steps and issues can be set aside at least for the time being or in the majority of cases. The following attempts to boil the research process down to the essentials. That said, following just these truncated set of steps is still complicated. Research is always a challenge and we shouldn't expect it ever to be otherwise. So it's the hope that the following documents will at least help direct people away from spending large amount of time on isues that are secondary, and instead focus their time and energy on the issues that need to be thought through first. 

Part 1 presents a step-by-step guide to thinking about research methodology and designing an analysis. 

Part 2 presents a step-by-step guide to carrying out the actual statistical anlayses and data visualization. 
